This lesson will cover How
switch to other accounts and
How to run commands and
programs as other users.
One way to start a session as another user
on the system is to use the su command.
If no arguments are supplied to su,
it assumes that you are trying to
become the superuser or root account.
Executing su without any options is
the same thing as executing su space root.
Your current environment is passed to the
new shell unless you specify a hyphen or
a dash.
In that case, su creates an environment
like you would expect to see had you
logged in as that user.
Use the -c option to su,
to specify a command to be executed.
If the command you want to execute
is more than one word in length,
then you need to surround it with quotes.
If you want to know what user you
are working as, run the whoami command.
If you run whoami, it should
return your current account name.
And after you su or
switch to another user, whoami should
return that user account's name.
Let's set an environment
variable to test with.
Let's set TEST = 1.
Now, let's use the su command to switch
to the oracle user for instance.
And you can see that that
environment variable is passed on.
Our environment exists after
we changed to the oracle user.
Let's use use su with a dash
to get oracle's environment.
And you can see that our environment
variable of TEST was not passed on when we
su space dash to the oracle user.
Also, we ended up in
the oracle's home directory.
Let's pass a command.
Let's do this, echo, ORACLE_HOME and
nothing was returned.
We didn't specify that we wanted
oracle's environment, rather
we used our environment, let's use a dash
to say, let's get oracle's environment.
And now you can see that that environment
variable that exists in the oracle account
is accessible to us.
Another way to switch users or
execute commands as others
is to use the sudo command.
Sudo allows you to run programs with
the security privileges of another user.
Like su, if no username is specified,
it assumes that you were trying to
run commands as the super user.
This is why sudo is referred
to as superuser do.
It is commonly used to install, start and
stop applications that
require root privileges.
One of the advantages of using sudo
over the su command is that you
don't need to know the password
of the other user.
This could eliminate some issues that
arise from using shared passwords in
generic accounts.
When you execute the sudo command,
you are prompted for your password.
If the sudo configuration permits access,
that command is executed.
The sudo configuration is typically
controlled by the system administrator,
and requires root access to change.
Of course, on your personal system,
you have access to the root account, and
you are effectively the system
administrator, as well.
To see the commands that are available for
you to run with sudo, use sudo -l.
To run a command as the root user,
just run sudo space the command
you want to execute.
You can specify a user with -u.
So sudo -u root command is the exact
same thing as sudo command.
However, if you want to run
a command as another user,
you need to specify that with -u.
So, sudo -u oracle command, for example.
You can use sudo su to switch
to the superuser account.
If you use sudo su- and hit enter
you get switched to the superuser
account with the root's environment.
Sudo su dash a username would
switch to that username's account,
with an environment that you would expect
to see, had you logged in as that user.
Another way to switch to another account
with sudo is to use the -s option.
If you run sudo -s that
will start a shell as root.
You can specify a user with the -u option.
We can use the sudo -l command to see
what commands we can run with sudo.
In this case it looks like
it can run any command and
I don't even need to specify a password.
Here's an example where you would use
sudo to execute a commando's route.
For instance,
let's start an application called oracle.
You could also run
sudo with -u to run programs
as other users besides route.
So let's run something as the user bob.
And let's say we need to stop
start bob's app as the user bob.
And that worked, and
that program is running as bob.
Let's switch to the oracle account, and
you can see that I'm the oracle user.
And now I'm back to my
normal jason account, and
I can also use sudo with a -s.
Let's do that to change
to the root account.
And you can see that I'm a root
account and I'm at my home directory.
Let's do this another way, you can also
switch to the root account with sudo su,
or even sudo su- to get roots environment.
If you need to modify the sudo
configuration, use the command visudo.
It effectively starts the vi editor and
edits the etc sudoers file.
The visudo command has to be
executed with approved privileges.
This means that you either need to switch
to the root account, and run visudo, for
example, su root, then run visudo.
Or run sudo visudo as your own account.
The sudoers file contains a list of users,
and what commands that those
users can run and as what users
those commands can be run as.
There are many options
to the sudoers file,
but the most simple format and
one that you'll see quite often
Is a line that gives a specific user
a set of commands that he or she can run.
The specification starts with the user
that is getting the sudo privilege,
followed by the host on which that
user can execute those privileges on.
This allows system administrators to
use one sudoers configuration file and
distribute that to multiple servers.
The user listed in parenthesis is
the user the commands will run as.
Finally a list of commands is
provided that the user can run.
You can separate multiple
commands with a comma
also if you don't require that a password
be entered when using sudo you
can supply the no password
decorator in front of the commands.
Use the su command to switch users.
To get the users environment
that you're switching to,
remember to use a hyphen or a dash.
The whoami command displays
your current account name.
The sudo command allows you to
execute programs as other users.
To switch users with sudo,
use sudo -s, or sudo su.
If you need to change the sudoers
configuration use the visudo command
to edit the sudoers file.